Clarify threat model (#378)
cfrg/draft-irtf-cfrg-frost: draft-irtf-cfrg-frost.md

FROST requires two rounds to complete. In the first round, participants generate
and publish one-time-use commitments to be used in the second round. In the second
round, each participant produces a share of the signature over the Coordinator-chosen
message and the other participant commitments. After the second round completes, the
Coordinator aggregates the signatures to produce a final signature. The Coordinator

> aborts if the signature is invalid; see {{abort}} for more information about dealing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SHOULD abort if the signature is invalid; see {{abort}} for more information about dealing
```

Reviewer: This is to be consistent with our language elsewhere

FROST assumes reliable message delivery between the Coordinator and participants in
order for the protocol to complete. An attacker masquerading as another participant
will result only in an invalid signature; see {{sec-considerations}}. However, in order

> to identify misbehaving participants that contribute to produce an invalid signature,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to identify misbehaving participants,
```

Reviewer: I think that sentence is still true in general, and is less specific?

The Coordinator SHOULD verify this signature using the group public key before publishing or
releasing the signature. Signature verification is as specified for the corresponding
ciphersuite; see {{ciphersuites}} for details. The aggregate signature will verify successfully
if and only if all signature shares are valid. In other words, if there exists an invalid
signature share, then the resulting aggregate signature will not verify successfully against
the group public key. Moreover, subsets of valid signature shares will themselves not yield

> a valid aggregate signature.

Reviewer 2: note: I don't think "if and only if" holds. If the shares are valid, then the aggregate signature will be valid but I don't think the other direction holds.

Reviewer 3: One share is off by -1, yet another is off by +1. Each share is invalid yet the aggregate will be fully valid. There's also random chance for two invalid, randomly derived shares, to collide.

and only if all signature shares are valid, this order of operations is more expensive
if the signature is valid.

## Identifiable Abort {#abort}

> FROST does not provide robustness. As such, a misbehaving participant can cause a denial-of-service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FROST does not provide robustness; i.e, all participants are required to complete the protocol honestly in order to generate a valid signature. As such, a misbehaving participant can cause a denial-of-service
```

> on the signing protocol if it is allowed to contribute to the signing protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on the signing protocol, such as by contributing malformed signature shares or simply refusing to participate. 
```

> Preventing this type of attack requires the Coordinator to identify the misbehaving

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FROST allows for identifying misbehaving participants that caused the protocol to abort; preventing this attack in future runs of the protocol requires the Coordinator to honestly report the misbehaving
```

Author: I don't agree with this suggestion, since (1) it assumes that the underlying channel has been authenticated as is required for public key shares to be associated with the desired entities and (2) we haven't said what "honestly reporting" even means.

> participant such that applications can take corrective action to prevent denial-of-service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
participant such that applications can take corrective action.
```

Author: I don't agree with this suggestion since this is the purpose of aborting. That is, DoS resistance is the security property we get from identifiable aborts.

> For example, one approach would be to remove the participant from the set of allowed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, one approach would be to remove the misbehaving participant from the set of allowed
```

and only if all signature shares are valid, this order of operations is more expensive
if the signature is valid.

## Identifiable Abort {#abort}

FROST does not provide robustness; i.e, all participants are required to complete the
protocol honestly in order to generate a valid signature. When the signing protocol
does not produce a valid signature, the Coordinator SHOULD abort; see {{sec-considerations}}
for more information about FROST's security properties and the threat model.

As a result of this property, a misbehaving participant can cause a denial-of-service on
the signing protocol by contributing malformed signature shares or refusing to participate.

> FROST assumes the network channel is authenticated to allow for this identification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FROST assumes the network channel is authenticated to identify which signer misbehaved .
```

FROST allows for identifying misbehaving participants that produce invalid signature shares
as described in {{frost-aggregation}}. FROST does not provide accommodations for identifying
participants that refuse to participate, though applications are assumed to detect when participants
fail to engage in the signing protocol.

In both cases, preventing this type of attack requires the Coordinator to identify
misbehaving participants such that applications can take corrective action. The mechanism
for acting on misbehaving participants is out of scope for this specification. However,

> one approach reasonable would be to remove the misbehaving participant from the set of allowed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
one reasonable approach would be to remove the misbehaving participant from the set of allowed
```

and only if all signature shares are valid, this order of operations is more expensive
if the signature is valid.

## Identifiable Abort {#abort}

FROST does not provide robustness; i.e, all participants are required to complete the
protocol honestly in order to generate a valid signature. When the signing protocol
does not produce a valid signature, the Coordinator SHOULD abort; see {{sec-considerations}}
for more information about FROST's security properties and the threat model.

As a result of this property, a misbehaving participant can cause a denial-of-service on
the signing protocol by contributing malformed signature shares or refusing to participate.

> FROST assumes the network channel is authenticated to identify which signer misbehaved .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FROST assumes the network channel is authenticated to identify which signer misbehaved.
```

# Security Considerations {#sec-considerations}

A security analysis of FROST exists in {{FROST20}} and {{StrongerSec22}}. At a high
level, FROST provides security against Existential Unforgeability Under Chosen Message
Attack (EUF-CMA) attacks, as defined in {{StrongerSec22}}. Satisfying this requirement
requires the ciphersuite to adhere to the requirements in {{ciphersuite-reqs}}, as well
as the following assumptions to hold.

* The signer key shares are generated and distributed securely, e.g., via a trusted dealer
that performs key generation (see {{dep-vss}}) or through a distributed key generation protocol.
* The Coordinator and at most `(MIN_PARTICIPANTS-1)` participants are corrupted.

Note that the Coordinator is not trusted with any private information and communication
at the time of signing can be performed over a public but reliable channel. Moreover, the

> Coordinator is trusted to not perform a denial of service attack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Coordinator is trusted to not perform a denial of service attack, and to report parties that misbehaved during protocol execution.
```

# Security Considerations {#sec-considerations}

A security analysis of FROST exists in {{FROST20}} and {{StrongerSec22}}. At a high
level, FROST provides security against Existential Unforgeability Under Chosen Message
Attack (EUF-CMA) attacks, as defined in {{StrongerSec22}}. Satisfying this requirement
requires the ciphersuite to adhere to the requirements in {{ciphersuite-reqs}}, as well
as the following assumptions to hold.

* The signer key shares are generated and distributed securely, e.g., via a trusted dealer
that performs key generation (see {{dep-vss}}) or through a distributed key generation protocol.
* The Coordinator and at most `(MIN_PARTICIPANTS-1)` participants are corrupted.

Note that the Coordinator is not trusted with any private information and communication
at the time of signing can be performed over a public but reliable channel. Moreover, the

> Coordinator is trusted to not perform a denial of service attack. To prevent denial-of-service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Coordinator is trusted to not perform a denial of service attacks and to identify and report misbehaving participants. To prevent denial-of-service
```

Author: As above, I don't agree with this suggestion since we have not described what "reporting" means.

Reviewer: I'm fine leaving out the reporting language then.

> attacks, the Coordinator is trusted to identify misbehaving participants and ideally abort

Reviewer: ```suggestion
attacks, the Coordinator is trusted to identify misbehaving participants and abort
```

Author: I don't agree with this change, as aborting is not sufficient for preventing DoS.

# Security Considerations {#sec-considerations}

A security analysis of FROST exists in {{FROST20}} and {{StrongerSec22}}. At a high
level, FROST provides security against Existential Unforgeability Under Chosen Message
Attack (EUF-CMA) attacks, as defined in {{StrongerSec22}}. Satisfying this requirement
requires the ciphersuite to adhere to the requirements in {{ciphersuite-reqs}}, as well
as the following assumptions to hold.

* The signer key shares are generated and distributed securely, e.g., via a trusted dealer
that performs key generation (see {{dep-vss}}) or through a distributed key generation protocol.

> * The Coordinator and at most `(MIN_PARTICIPANTS-1)` participants are corrupted.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* The Coordinator and at most `(MIN_PARTICIPANTS-1)` participants may be corrupted.
```

Note that the Coordinator is not trusted with any private information and communication
at the time of signing can be performed over a public but reliable channel. Moreover, the
Coordinator is trusted to not perform a denial of service attack. To prevent denial-of-service

> attacks, the Coordinator is trusted to identify misbehaving participants and ideally abort

Reviewer: This language is a bit too precise; the Coordinator is also trusted to honestly perform coordination in order to prevent itself from performing denial of service.

the protocol in the event of an invalid signature. Aborting the protocol ensures that invalid
signatures are not produced as output.

FROST does not aim to achieve the following goals:

* Post quantum security. FROST, like plain Schnorr signatures, requires the hardness of the Discrete Logarithm Problem.
* Robustness. Preventing denial-of-service attacks against misbehaving participants requires the Coordinator

>   to identify and act on miebehaving participants; see {{abort}} for more information. While FROST

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  to identify and act on misbehaving participants; see {{abort}} for more information. While FROST
```
